Web developers are responsible for writing code to create a website, both at the front end and the back end. The front end includes the website users see and the back end is the side that delivers information to the front end. In smaller firms, a web developer is also responsible for some level of web design. Web developer duties can include:

Understanding the company requirements or team requesting the website
Writing front and back end code to set up the parameters of the website
Working with designers on the website appearance
Creating a method to collect user feedback
Analyzing user feedback to fix errors and improve user experience (UX)
Implementing testing tools to continuously monitor the website
Keeping all software current and updated
Ensuring websites and related applications are secure 

Technical skills: Web developers must be able to show competency in coding languages such as HTML5, PHP and JavaScript. Familiarization with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), ASP.NET and AngularJS will also help make an aspiring web developer more desirable as a job candidate, as will familiarity with tools such as Oracle and SQL Server. 

Communication: Web developers should be able to interact with and understand client and team needs. As clients often don’t have a technical background, developers often need to explain complex subjects in a simple, easy-to-understand manner. 

Detail-orientation: These professionals often write and review thousands of lines of code to create a website. They should have excellent attention to detail to identify and fix small errors that could cause improper functions in the end product. 

Time management: Particularly if they work on a freelance or multiple contract basis, web developers often simultaneously create several websites. They must prioritize tasks, make and adhere to deadlines and create timelines for work completion.

Self-motivated learning: Because they are in a field that evolves continuously, web developers should teach themselves new tools and techniques as companies release updates. They should also apply any new techniques to current websites to improve the UX

python
ASP.Net
Java
C#
Flask
Django
Springboot
HTML/CSS
Analytical
Responsive design
JavaScript
Testing
Debugging
back-end basics
search engine optimization
fluent English
developer
data
SQL Server
Data Mining
Computer Science
Relational Databases
Reporting
Revision Control
Structured Query Language (SQL)

Best Practices
Innovative
teamwork
team work
team player
team
Ability
Accept Feedback
Adaptable
Assertive
Attentive
Experience
Excel
Facilitating
Flexible
Flexibility
Follow Instructions
Follow Regulations
Follow Rules
Friendly
Functions Well Under Pressure
Giving Feedback
Organization
Patience
Performance
Perform Effectively
Performance Management
Perseverance
Persistence
Results Oriented
Safety Conscious
Scheduling
Self-awareness
Self-directed
Self-monitoring
Self-supervising
Technology Savvy
Time Management
Tolerant of Change and Uncertainty
Trainable
Troubleshooter
Value Education
Verbal Communication
Visual Communication
Well Groomed
Willing to Accept Feedback
Willingness to Learn
Work Well Under Pressure